5 the most famous traditional folk festivals in Southeastern Vietnamese
Southeastern Vietnam is one of two regions of South Vietnam. Southeast Vietnam has one City And five provinces: Ho Chi Minh City, Ba Ria-Vung Tau, Binh Duong, Binh Phuoc, Dong Nai and Tay ninh. This region has Mountains, rivers and the sea. This region has both Native Vietnamese and Chinese Vietnamese living. Therefore, the culture in this region has its particularity. This Place has so many festivals. After, we are introducing to you five the most well known traditional folk festivals in the region.
1.Thang Tam Temple Festival in Ba Ria-Vung Tau:
Thang Tam Temple Festival happens on Hoang Hoa Tham Street, Thang Tam Ward, Vung Tau City, Ba Ria-Vung Tau Province for 4 days, from the 17th to 20th of February on the lunar calendar. 
Thang Tam Temple Festival shows the gratitude of the people in Ba Ria-Vung Tau to the 3 gods (Pham Van Dinh, Le Van Loc, Ngo Van Huyen) who had the merit in the period of protecting and building 3 villages in Ba Ria-Vung Tau. It also shows peaceful and comfortable wish of the people here.
2.Dinh Co Festival in Ba Ria-Vung Tau:
Dinh Co festival happens under Thuy Van mountain in Hai Son Hamlet, Long Hai Town, Long Dat District, Ba Ria-Vung Tau Province for 3 days, from the 10th to 12th of February on the lunar calendar.
It is an opportunity so that the fishers shows their gratitude to the Young Lady who had merit helping them overcome sea accidences and have peaceful and comfortable life. This is also an opportunity so that everyone relaxed after days working hard. 
3.Thien Hau Pagoda Festival in Binh Duong:
 Thien Hau Pagoda Festival in Binh Duong happens at 4 Nguyen Du Street, Thu Dau Mot City, Binh Duong Province for three days, from the thirteenth to the fifteenth of January on the lunar calendar. 
Thien Hau Pagoda Festival aims to show the gratitude of both Chinese Vietnamese and Native Vietnamese to Thien Hau Lady who they think helped them overcome the difficulty in life. In the ceremony, they pray to Lady for giving them a peaceful and comfortable life.
4.Whale Festival in Can Gio, Ho Chi Minh City:
whale Festival is organized at the mausoleum of the water general, Hung Thanh Hamlet, Can Thanh Commune, Can Gio District, Ho Chi Minh City from the 15th to the 17thof August on the lunar calendar.
The fishers in the area shows the gratitude to Nam Hai Tuong Quan (The general in Nam Hai Sea, whale, Lord, Ong). They pray to him for advantageous weather and shrimps fish full of boats.
5.Black Lady Mountain Festival in Tay Ninh:
Black Lady Mountain Festival in Tay Ninh happens at Black Lady Mountain, Tay Ninh Province from 4th to 6th on the lunar calendar.
Black Lady Mountain Festival in Tay Ninh aims to show the Gratitude of the people to a goddess who they think that help them in life and pray to Black Lady for peace and comfort.
We have just introduced five the most famous traditional folk festivals in Southeastern Vietnam. We have the detail articles talking about them, would you like to look for reading.


	







